external/camel/README.md, before:

# External Camel Tests
Third Party container tests help verify that the Adoptium binaries are good by running a variety of Java applications inside of Docker containers. AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/Issue #172 lists the applications that we have initially targeted to best exercise the AdoptOpenJDK binaries. For each application, we choose to run a selection of their functional tests.

## Running External Camel tests locally
To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:
0. Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md). For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine

2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>`
3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git`
4. `cd openjdk-tests`
5. `./get.sh`
6. `cd TKG`
7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (`export BUILD_LIST=external/camel` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`
8. `make compile` (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)
9. `make _camel_test` (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in openjdk-tests/external, then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)
When [running these from the command-line](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/userGuide.md#local-testing-via-make-targets-on-the-commandline), these tests are grouped under a make target called 'external', so 'make external' would run the entire set of tests found in the openjdk-tests/external directory. This is unadvisable! Limit what you compile and run, BUILD_LIST=external/`<someSubDirectory>`, and TARGET=`<testCaseNameFromSubdirPlaylist>`
These tests run regularly and results can be found in [TRSS Third Party Application view](https://trss.adoptopenjdk.net/ThirdPartyAppVie).

Commit message:

Changed README.md for camel-test

external/camel/README.md, after:

# External Camel Tests
Third Party container tests help verify that the Adoptium binaries are good by running a variety of Java applications inside of Docker containers. AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/Issue #172 lists the applications that we have initially targeted to best exercise the AdoptOpenJDK binaries. For each application, we choose to run a selection of their functional tests.Camel tests are functional tests pulled from the [camel-quarkus](https://github.com/apache/camel-quarkus.git) repository.

## Running External Camel tests locally
To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:
0. Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md). For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine

2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>`
3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git`
4. `cd openjdk-tests`
5. `./get.sh`
6. `cd TKG`
7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (`export BUILD_LIST=external/camel` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`
8. `make compile` (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)
9. `make _camel_test` (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in openjdk-tests/external, then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)
When [running these from the command-line](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/userGuide.md#local-testing-via-make-targets-on-the-commandline), these tests are grouped under a make target called 'external', so 'make external' would run the entire set of tests found in the openjdk-tests/external directory. This is unadvisable! Limit what you compile and run, BUILD_LIST=external/`<someSubDirectory>`, and TARGET=`<testCaseNameFromSubdirPlaylist>`
These tests run regularly and results can be found in [TRSS Third Party Application view](https://trss.adoptopenjdk.net/ThirdPartyAppView).
