jck/README.md, before:

<!--
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->

# How-to Run JCK Tests

* Prerequisites:
  * OpenJDK Community TCK License Agreement (OCTLA)
  * your own set of JCK test materials (JCK test source under OCTLA License): jck8c or jck9
  * ant 1.10.1 or above with ant-contrib.jar

1. Create an empty folder where your JCK test materials will be stored. For example `makedir /jck`

2. Export `JCK_GIT_REPO=<test_material_repo | test_material_folder>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command.
* If your test material is stored in a git repository it will be cloned to the empty folder created in step 1. For example `export JCK_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:<org>/<repo>.git`
* Otherwise put your unarchived jck test materials into the empty folder created in step 1 and point `JCK_GIT_REPO` to this folder. For example `export JCK_GIT_REPO=/jck/jck8c`

3. Export `JCK_ROOT=/jck/<test_material_folder>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command. For example `export JCK_ROOT=/jck/jck8c`
* Optional. The default value is `<openjdk-test>/../../../jck_root/JCK$(JDK_VERSION)-unzipped`

4. Export `TEST_JDK_HOME=<your_JDK_root>` as an environment variable

5. If you want to compile jck test only, export `BUILD_LIST=jck`. The other steps will stay the same as instructed in [aqa-tests/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/README.md).


This test directory contains:
  * `build.xml` file - that clones adoptium/stf repo to pick up a test framework
  * `<test_subset>/playlist.xml` - to allow easy inclusion of JCK tests into automated builds
  * `jck.mk` - define extra settings for running JCK tests.


# How-to Run customized JCK test targets

There is one custom JCK test targets `jck-runtime-custom`. This test target is used as an example to run custom JCK test target in JCK runtime suite.

1. Follow the Steps 1 - 4 mentioned above. 

2. Export `JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET=<jck_test_subset>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command. For example `export JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET=api/java_math`

3. Make sure the JCK test subset is available in JCK test material folder, a.k.a. `$(JCK_ROOT)`.

4. If you need to add extra Java options to JCK tests, you could export `EXTRA_OPTIONS="<java_options>"`. Then extra added Java options would be added to JCK test during execution.

5. Follow the steps remaining in [aqa-tests/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/README.md)


# How-to Run JCK test targets within Docker container

With the help of this JCK dockerfile, users can execute JCK tests locally
without having environment setup problems. To utilize the advantage of 
docker-based JCK test, users can follow the step below to run JCK tests 
locally within Docker container.

1. Run the [aqa-tests/get.sh](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/get.sh) to prepare the test framework and dependencies.

2. Follow the readme in [aqa-tests/buildenv/docker/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/buildenv/docker/README.md) to build Docker image.

3. Prepare the JCK materials locally and mount it to the Docker container when you
   initialize the JCK docker image.

4. Once you are in the Docker container, follow [How-to Run customized JCK test targets](#how-to-run-customized-jck-test-targets) or [How-to Run JCK Tests](#how-to-run-jck-tests) to run JCK tests locally.

## A quick start to run JCK test in docker image

```
// clone this aqa-tests repo
git clone https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests.git

// build docker image and run it
// the JCK_ROOT structure should be like
//root:jck root$ tree -L 2 ./
//./
//├── jck11
//├── jck10
//├── jck8c
//└── jck9

cd aqa-tests/buildenv/docker
docker build -t openjdk-test .
docker run -it -v <path_to_aqa-tests_root>:/test  -v <jck_material_root>:/jck openjdk-test /bin/bash

// within docker container
cd /test
bash get.sh --testdir /test --customizedURL https://api.adoptopenjdk.net/openjdk8-openj9/nightly/x64_linux/latest/binary --sdkdir /java 
export TEST_JDK_HOME=/java/openjdkbinary/j2sdk-image
export BUILD_LIST=jck
export JCK_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:mypretendcompany/jck8tests.git
export JCK_ROOT=/jck/jck8tests

cd TKG
make compile
make _sanity.jck
```

Commit message:

Allow testSuite to be supplied as part of jck custom target
Signed-off-by: Mesbah_Alam@ca.ibm.com <Mesbah_Alam@ca.ibm.com>

jck/README.md, after:

<!--
# Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
# you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
# You may obtain a copy of the License at
#
#      https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
#
# Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
# distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
# WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
# See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
# limitations under the License.
-->

# How-to Run JCK Tests

* Prerequisites:
  * OpenJDK Community TCK License Agreement (OCTLA)
  * your own set of JCK test materials (JCK test source under OCTLA License): jck8c or jck9
  * ant 1.10.1 or above with ant-contrib.jar

1. Create an empty folder where your JCK test materials will be stored. For example `makedir /jck`

2. Export `JCK_GIT_REPO=<test_material_repo | test_material_folder>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command.
* If your test material is stored in a git repository it will be cloned to the empty folder created in step 1. For example `export JCK_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:<org>/<repo>.git`
* Otherwise put your unarchived jck test materials into the empty folder created in step 1 and point `JCK_GIT_REPO` to this folder. For example `export JCK_GIT_REPO=/jck/jck8c`

3. Export `JCK_ROOT=/jck/<test_material_folder>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command. For example `export JCK_ROOT=/jck/jck8c`
* Optional. The default value is `<openjdk-test>/../../../jck_root/JCK$(JDK_VERSION)-unzipped`

4. Export `TEST_JDK_HOME=<your_JDK_root>` as an environment variable

5. If you want to compile jck test only, export `BUILD_LIST=jck`. The other steps will stay the same as instructed in [aqa-tests/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/README.md).


This test directory contains:
  * `build.xml` file - that clones adoptium/stf repo to pick up a test framework
  * `<test_subset>/playlist.xml` - to allow easy inclusion of JCK tests into automated builds
  * `jck.mk` - define extra settings for running JCK tests.


# How-to Run customized JCK test targets

There is a custom JCK test target `jck_custom`. This is used to run custom JCK test targets in any JCK testsuite. RUNTIME is the default testsuite.

1. Follow the Steps 1 - 4 mentioned above. 

2. Export `JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET=<jck_test_subset>` as an environment variable or pass it in when run as a make command. For example `export JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET=api/java_math`. If a testsuite other than the default is needed, provide that in JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET (e.g., JCK_CUSTOM_TARGET=lang/INFR/....html,testsuite=COMPILER).

3. Make sure the JCK test subset is available in JCK test material folder, a.k.a. `$(JCK_ROOT)`.

4. If you need to add extra Java options to JCK tests, you could export `EXTRA_OPTIONS="<java_options>"`. Then extra added Java options would be added to JCK test during execution.

5. Follow the steps remaining in [aqa-tests/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/README.md)


# How-to Run JCK test targets within Docker container

With the help of this JCK dockerfile, users can execute JCK tests locally
without having environment setup problems. To utilize the advantage of 
docker-based JCK test, users can follow the step below to run JCK tests 
locally within Docker container.

1. Run the [aqa-tests/get.sh](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/get.sh) to prepare the test framework and dependencies.

2. Follow the readme in [aqa-tests/buildenv/docker/README.md](https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests/blob/master/buildenv/docker/README.md) to build Docker image.

3. Prepare the JCK materials locally and mount it to the Docker container when you
   initialize the JCK docker image.

4. Once you are in the Docker container, follow [How-to Run customized JCK test targets](#how-to-run-customized-jck-test-targets) or [How-to Run JCK Tests](#how-to-run-jck-tests) to run JCK tests locally.

## A quick start to run JCK test in docker image

```
// clone this aqa-tests repo
git clone https://github.com/adoptium/aqa-tests.git

// build docker image and run it
// the JCK_ROOT structure should be like
//root:jck root$ tree -L 2 ./
//./
//├── jck11
//├── jck10
//├── jck8c
//└── jck9

cd aqa-tests/buildenv/docker
docker build -t openjdk-test .
docker run -it -v <path_to_aqa-tests_root>:/test  -v <jck_material_root>:/jck openjdk-test /bin/bash

// within docker container
cd /test
bash get.sh --testdir /test --customizedURL https://api.adoptopenjdk.net/openjdk8-openj9/nightly/x64_linux/latest/binary --sdkdir /java 
export TEST_JDK_HOME=/java/openjdkbinary/j2sdk-image
export BUILD_LIST=jck
export JCK_GIT_REPO=git@github.com:mypretendcompany/jck8tests.git
export JCK_ROOT=/jck/jck8tests

cd TKG
make compile
make _sanity.jck
```
