doc/RunAqa.md, before:

# Run AQA GitHub Action Documentation

## Usage

On any Pull Request (PR), make a comment starting with the keywords `run aqa` followed by any [arguments](#arguments) to start a build.

Example:
```
run aqa --sdk_resource nightly --build_list openjdk --target sanity.openjdk --jdk_version 8 11 --jdk_impl hotspot --platform x86-64_linux 
```

## Arguments

Most arguments are similar to their [Jenkins Grinder](https://ci.adoptopenjdk.net/job/Grinder) counterparts.

All arguments allow more than one parameter. The parameters of each argument will be used to create a matrix job that will test every combination of the parameters.

### --help

This argument accepts no values. When this argument is supplied, a comment will be created with a link to this documentation. All other arguments will be ignored and no builds will be started.

This argument is equivalently invoked by `-h`.

### --sdk_resource

Supported values are:

- `nightly`
- `releases`
- `customized`

`nightly` and `releases` pull the latest from Adoptium.

If `nightly` / `releases` is specified, the values of [`--jdk_version`](#--jdk_version) and [`--jdk_impl`](#--jdk_impl) are used to determine the JDK version and implementation to pull.

If `customized` is specified, the SDK archive is downloaded from the URL provided to the argument [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) and is unpacked according to the archive extension provided to the argument [`--archive_extension`](#--archive_extension). The value of[`--jdk_version`](#--jdk_version) should be set accordingly since it is used to cache JDKs which are used multiple times during the workflow.

### --customized_sdk_url

A URL to an SDK archive. The archive will be unpacked according to the archive extension provided to the argument [`--archive_extension`](#--archive_extension).

This argument is only used when [`--sdk_resource`](#--sdk_resource) is `customized`.

### --archive_extension

Supported values are:

- `.zip`
- `.tar`
- `.7z`

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a zip file, specify `.zip`.

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a tar or tar.gz file, specify `.tar`.

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a 7z file, specify `.7z`.

This argument is only used when [`--sdk_resource`](#--sdk_resource) is `customized`.

The default value is `.tar`.

### --build_list

The test category / directory.

Supported values are:

- `openjdk`
- `functional`
- `system`
- `perf`
- `external`

The default value is `openjdk`.

### --target

The test target to execute. Can be a specific testcase name or different test level under build_list.

e.g. `_jdk_math` under the `openjdk` build_list.

The default value is `_jdk_math`.

### --platform

The platform to run the build on.

Can be the name of any [GitHub-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners#supported-runners-and-hardware-resources) (e.g. `ubuntu-latest`) or one of the following:

- `x86-64_linux`
- `x86-64_mac`
- `x86-64_windows`

Each of the above `x86-64_*` options map to `ubuntu-latest`, `macos-latest`, and `windows-latest` GitHub-hosted runners respectively.

The default value is `ubuntu-latest`.

### --jdk_version

The Java version that tests are running against.

Supported values are: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, ...

The default value is `8`.

### --jdk_impl

JVM implementation.

Supported values are:

- `hotspot`
- `openj9`

The default value is `openj9`.

### --openjdk_testrepo

GitHub repository and branch of the aqa-tests to use.

The format is `<repository>:<branch>`.

The default value is `adoptium/aqa-tests:master`.

This option is unavailable in `aqa-tests` repositories because it will always use the head repo and branch of the PR instead.

### --tkg_repo

GitHub repository and branch of the TestKitGen (TKG) to use.

The format is `<repository>:<branch>`.

The default value is `adoptium/TKG:master`.

This option is unavailable in `TKG` repositories because it will always use the head repo and branch of the PR instead.

## Status Reports

After every successful invocation of `run aqa`, a bot will respond to you with a comment containing the list of build parameters it will run against, and provide a hyperlinked run ID that can be followed to view the status of the workflow.

If the invocation of `run aqa` was unsuccessful due to missing or invalid arguments, the bot will instead respond with a comment containing an appropriate error message.

Once the builds are completed, the bot will create a new comment notifying you of the workflow status, and provide another hyperlinked run ID which can be followed to view more details of the builds that occurred in the workflow.

Commit message:

Update RunAqa document to include openj9_repo option (#2732)
Signed-off-by: renfeiw <renfeiw@ca.ibm.com>

doc/RunAqa.md, after:

# Run AQA GitHub Action Documentation

## Usage

On any Pull Request (PR), make a comment starting with the keywords `run aqa` followed by any [arguments](#arguments) to start a build.

Example:
```
run aqa --sdk_resource nightly --build_list openjdk --target sanity.openjdk --jdk_version 8 11 --jdk_impl hotspot --platform x86-64_linux 
```

## Arguments

Most arguments are similar to their [Jenkins Grinder](https://ci.adoptopenjdk.net/job/Grinder) counterparts.

All arguments allow more than one parameter. The parameters of each argument will be used to create a matrix job that will test every combination of the parameters.

### --help

This argument accepts no values. When this argument is supplied, a comment will be created with a link to this documentation. All other arguments will be ignored and no builds will be started.

This argument is equivalently invoked by `-h`.

### --sdk_resource

Supported values are:

- `nightly`
- `releases`
- `customized`

`nightly` and `releases` pull the latest from Adoptium.

If `nightly` / `releases` is specified, the values of [`--jdk_version`](#--jdk_version) and [`--jdk_impl`](#--jdk_impl) are used to determine the JDK version and implementation to pull.

If `customized` is specified, the SDK archive is downloaded from the URL provided to the argument [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) and is unpacked according to the archive extension provided to the argument [`--archive_extension`](#--archive_extension). The value of[`--jdk_version`](#--jdk_version) should be set accordingly since it is used to cache JDKs which are used multiple times during the workflow.

### --customized_sdk_url

A URL to an SDK archive. The archive will be unpacked according to the archive extension provided to the argument [`--archive_extension`](#--archive_extension).

This argument is only used when [`--sdk_resource`](#--sdk_resource) is `customized`.

### --archive_extension

Supported values are:

- `.zip`
- `.tar`
- `.7z`

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a zip file, specify `.zip`.

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a tar or tar.gz file, specify `.tar`.

If [`--customized_sdk_url`](#--customized_sdk_url) downloads a 7z file, specify `.7z`.

This argument is only used when [`--sdk_resource`](#--sdk_resource) is `customized`.

The default value is `.tar`.

### --build_list

The test category / directory.

Supported values are:

- `openjdk`
- `functional`
- `system`
- `perf`
- `external`

The default value is `openjdk`.

### --target

The test target to execute. Can be a specific testcase name or different test level under build_list.

e.g. `_jdk_math` under the `openjdk` build_list.

The default value is `_jdk_math`.

### --platform

The platform to run the build on.

Can be the name of any [GitHub-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-github-hosted-runners/about-github-hosted-runners#supported-runners-and-hardware-resources) (e.g. `ubuntu-latest`) or one of the following:

- `x86-64_linux`
- `x86-64_mac`
- `x86-64_windows`

Each of the above `x86-64_*` options map to `ubuntu-latest`, `macos-latest`, and `windows-latest` GitHub-hosted runners respectively.

The default value is `ubuntu-latest`.

### --jdk_version

The Java version that tests are running against.

Supported values are: 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, ...

The default value is `8`.

### --jdk_impl

JVM implementation.

Supported values are:

- `hotspot`
- `openj9`

The default value is `openj9`.

### --openjdk_testrepo

GitHub repository and branch of the aqa-tests to use.

The format is `<repository>:<branch>`.

The default value is `adoptium/aqa-tests:master`.

This option is unavailable in `aqa-tests` repositories because it will always use the head repo and branch of the PR instead.

### --openj9_repo
GitHub repository and branch of the OpenJ9 to use.

The format is `<repository>:<branch>`.

The default value is `eclipse-openj9/openj9:master`.

This option is unavailable in `openj9` repositories because it will always use the head repo and branch of the PR instead.

### --tkg_repo

GitHub repository and branch of the TestKitGen (TKG) to use.

The format is `<repository>:<branch>`.

The default value is `adoptium/TKG:master`.

This option is unavailable in `TKG` repositories because it will always use the head repo and branch of the PR instead.

## Status Reports

After every successful invocation of `run aqa`, a bot will respond to you with a comment containing the list of build parameters it will run against, and provide a hyperlinked run ID that can be followed to view the status of the workflow.

If the invocation of `run aqa` was unsuccessful due to missing or invalid arguments, the bot will instead respond with a comment containing an appropriate error message.

Once the builds are completed, the bot will create a new comment notifying you of the workflow status, and provide another hyperlinked run ID which can be followed to view more details of the builds that occurred in the workflow.
