external/quarkus_openshift/README.md, before:

# External quarkus_openshift Tests

Third Party container tests help verify that the Adoptium binaries are good by running a variety of Java applications inside of Docker containers. AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/Issue #172 lists the applications that we have initially targeted to best exercise the AdoptOpenJDK binaries. For each application, we choose to run a selection of their functional tests.

## Running quarkus-openshift tests locally

To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:

0.  Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md). For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine

2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>`

3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git`

4. `cd openjdk-tests`

5. `./get.sh`

6.  `cd TKG`

7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (`export BUILD_LIST=external/quarkus_openshift` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`

8. `make compile` (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)

9.  `make _quarkus_openshift_test` (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in openjdk-tests/external, then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)

When [running these from the command-line](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/userGuide.md#local-testing-via-make-targets-on-the-commandline), these tests are grouped under a make target called 'external', so 'make external' would run the entire set of tests found in the openjdk-tests/external directory. This is unadvisable! Limit what you compile and run, BUILD_LIST=external/`<someSubDirectory>`, and TARGET=`<testCaseNameFromSubdirPlaylist>`.

These tests run regularly and results can be found in [TRSS Third Party Application view](https://trss.adoptopenjdk.net/ThirdPartyAppView).

Commit message:

Changed README.md of quarkus_openshift tests

external/quarkus_openshift/README.md, after:

# External quarkus_openshift Tests

Third Party container tests help verify that the Adoptium binaries are good by running a variety of Java applications inside of Docker containers. AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/Issue #172 lists the applications that we have initially targeted to best exercise the Adoptium binaries. For each application, we choose to run a selection of their functional tests. Quarkus Openshift tests are pulled from the [quarkus-openshift-test-suite](https://github.com/quarkus-qe/quarkus-openshift-test-suite.git) repository. These tests require an Openshift cluster environment to run.

## Running quarkus-openshift tests locally

To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:

0.  Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md). For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine

2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>`

3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git`

4. `cd openjdk-tests`

5. `./get.sh`

6.  `cd TKG`

7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (`export BUILD_LIST=external/quarkus_openshift` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`

8. `make compile` (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)

9.  `make _quarkus_openshift_test` (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in openjdk-tests/external, then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)

When [running these from the command-line](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/userGuide.md#local-testing-via-make-targets-on-the-commandline), these tests are grouped under a make target called 'external', so 'make external' would run the entire set of tests found in the openjdk-tests/external directory. This is unadvisable! Limit what you compile and run, BUILD_LIST=external/`<someSubDirectory>`, and TARGET=`<testCaseNameFromSubdirPlaylist>`.

These tests run regularly and results can be found in [TRSS Third Party Application view](https://trss.adoptopenjdk.net/ThirdPartyAppView).
