external/wycheproof/README.md, before:

## Running External tests locally
To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:

0. Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md).  For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine
2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>` 
3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git` 
4. `cd openjdk-tests`
5. `./get.sh`
6. `cd TKG`
7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (example: `export BUILD_LIST=external/jacoco` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`
8. `make wycheproof`        (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)
9. `make wycheproof_test`   (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in [openjdk-tests/external](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/tree/master/external), then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)

Commit message:

Updated changes; Added a README.md & a test.properties file to the wycheproof docs

external/wycheproof/README.md, after:

# External Wycheproof Tests

Wycheproof tests are a part of the external third-party application tests that help verify that the Adoptium binaries are good by running a variety of Java applications inside of Docker containers. AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/[Issue #172](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/issues/172) lists the applications that we have initially targeted to best exercise the Adoptium binaries. For each application, we choose to run a selection of their functional tests. Wycheproof test material is pulled from the [wycheproof](https://github.com/google/wycheproof) repository.

## Running External tests locally

To run any AQA tests locally, you follow the same pattern:

0. Ensure your test machine is set up with [test prereqs](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/Prerequisites.md).  For external tests, you do need Docker installed.

1. Download/unpack the SDK you want to your test machine

2. `export TEST_JDK_HOME=</pathToWhereYouInstalledSDK>` 

3. `git clone https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests.git`

4. `cd openjdk-tests`

5. `./get.sh`

6. `cd TKG`

7. export required environment variables, BUILD_LIST and EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS (example: `export BUILD_LIST=external/wycheproof` and `export EXTRA_DOCKER_ARGS="-v $TEST_JDK_HOME:/opt/java/openjdk"`

8. `make wycheproof`        (This fetches test material and compiles it, based on build.xml files in the test directories)

9. `make wycheproof_test`   (When you defined BUILD_LIST to point to a directory in [openjdk-tests/external](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/tree/master/external), then this is a testCaseName from the playlist.xml file within the directory you chose)

When [running these from the command-line](https://github.com/AdoptOpenJDK/openjdk-tests/blob/master/doc/userGuide.md#local-testing-via-make-targets-on-the-commandline), these tests are grouped under a make target called 'external', so 'make external' would run the entire set of tests found in the openjdk-tests/external directory. This is unadvisable! Limit what you compile and run, BUILD_LIST=external/<someSubDirectory>, and TARGET=<testCaseNameFromSubdirPlaylist>

These tests run regularly and results can be found in [TRSS Third Party Application view](https://trss.adoptopenjdk.net/ThirdPartyAppView).
